Let us understand the role of vector embeddings in generative A I solution.
Vector embeddings play a crucial role
in generating A I bridging the gap between human readable data
and computational algorithms.
For example,
when a user asks a query in natural language,
what are the potential root causes for the failure of job XYZ
generative A I solution?
It needs to comprehend the user query,
apply computational algorithms
to retrieve answer
and then provide a response.
Now, in order to achieve this,
the plain text must be converted
into a computer under understandable language.
And this process is called as vector embedding
vector embeddings transform different types of data
such as text or images into numerical representations
so that generative A I can comprehend
and process them effectively
vector embeddings capture the similarities and
relationships between different data points.
This allows generative A I
to understand the context and associations within the data
enhancing its ability to generate meaningful outputs.
Now, by representing the data in numerical vectors,
generative A I can process
and analyze the information more efficiently.
And this efficiency
enables quicker
and more accurate generation of outputs
by the A I model.
So in summary
vector embeddings empi
generative A I by transforming diverse data types into numerical vectors,
capturing relationships
and enabling efficient processing and analysis.
Now let's understand some of the concepts
like vector
vector embedding
and vector stove.
A vector is a fixed length array of numbers
that mathematically represents a point in space.
Each number in the array corresponds to a unique direction or dimension
in the vector space
and its value represents
the magnitude of the vector in that direction.
Let's take an example of a sentence
root cause is due to server misfigure.
In this example,
each word
namely
root cause,
server
and misfigure
can be represented as vectors.
For simplicity. These vectors
are visualized as two dimensional vectors
where each word corresponds to a point with X and Y coordinate values.
However,
in real world applications,
multidimensional vector spaces are typically used to capture a
broad range of relationships and semantic nuances between the words
a vector embedding
or simply embedding is a numerical
representation of typically nonnumerical data objects
embeddings capture the essential properties and relationships
of the original data. In a condensed format.
A vector store is a specialized type of database management system or DB
MS
which is designed to store and manage vectors,
knowledge graphs,
knowledge graphs play a pivotal role in enhancing generative A I solutions.
A knowledge graph is an interconnected structure
that represents entities
that attributes
and relationships
in the context of the technology delivery life cycle.
Let's take an example of a sentence.
Root cause of
server failure is mis configuration.
Now, in the left side of this diagram,
we can see the probable vectors
namely the root cause server failure
and mis configuration.
All these are vectors.
Now, in the right side,
we can see a representative knowledge graph for the same vectors.
Each keyword namely root cause server failure
and
misfigure
are all called as entities.
Now, the entities
have a relationship,
for example,
uh so
has
a,
a failure,
a failure has a root cause,
root causes mis configuration
misfigure
occurred in server.
The failure is due to mis configurations.
Now,
knowledge graphs provide explicit context and meaning to the data
and it enables the generative A I models to ground the response in validated facts.
Now, by combining knowledge graphs
with vector search
generated A I can provide precise
and relevant responses.
And this synergy is achieved by linking diverse data sources together
and providing the requisite context for accurate analysis and interpretation.
Now, in summary
knowledge graphs play a crucial role
in enabling
gene
I
to deliver contextually accurate and efficient responses.
So thereby its service is a key element
in unlocking
business value in generative A I solutions.
Now let's understand semantic search.
Semantic
search is predominantly used in A I
natural language processing and generative A I applications.
Semantic search is a powerful approach
that enhances traditional keyword
based search techniques
by understanding the intent and context behind the user queries.
It goes beyond
keywords to understand the user intent and
provide more accurate and contextually relevant results.
Now let's take an example of two user queries.
In the first example, a user asks
a
query,
explain the process to rerun a failed job in etl process.
In the second
query,
the user asks explain to me the job of a business analyst in software development.
Now,
in both the queries, the word job has different meanings
in these scenarios. Keyword search will not provide the right response.
Hence, semantic search is used to understand the intent of the user query.
And based on that
the search content will retrieve
information from the database and then provide the response.
Now let's understand some key processes semantic search namely vector search,
query transformation
matching process context and intent
vector search.
Semantic search is powered by vector search.
It encodes information into vectors or numerical representations
and compels them to determine the similarity
query transformation.
When a user query is launched,
the search engine transforms it into embeddings or numerical representations.
And these are stored in vectors
matching process
algorithms like K nearest neighbor
or KNN
or cosine
matches existing document vectors to query vectors, generating
results based on conceptual relevance,
context and intent.
Semantic search considers context, geographical location, textual context, etc
and interprets user intent to provide relevant answers.
Now, this diagram on the right, it explains the vector search process,
use case relevant enterprise knowledge artifacts like design documents,
run books,
application architectural diagrams, knowledge, session,
recordings in different formats like image
documents,
audios, videos, etc
are first transformed into embeddings
as explained previously.
Now, these embeddings are
stored in a vector store
which will be searched later
based on the query from users.
The query is asked through a chatbot or collaboration tool like MS
teams
and this is again transformed into vector embeddings
and it is passed to the search engine.
The semantic search engine
does a context matching from the vector
store based on the K nearest neighbor algorithm
and it fetches the relevant vector embeddings.
The response received
is then provided back to the user
through the chat bot of the MS teams
in generative A I solutions,
pre trained foundation models or large language models are
commonly utilized to provide accurate responses to generate queries.
However,
there may be challenges to generate correct responses or
it might even produce inaccurate information
when faced with highly specific client queries.
Now, this is
primarily due to lack of training or client specific data or knowledge.
Now to overcome this challenge,
retrieval augmented generation technique is employed with
within generative A I solutions.
Retrieval augmented generation
is an architecture
designed to enhance the capabilities of large
language
models
such as GPT
bedrock lama
etc.
By integrating an information retrieval system
rag supplements LMS
by incorporating relevant information from external sources.
It enables precise control over the data
used by
LMS during query and response generation
for enterprises
rag ensures
that generative A I operates within the confines
of the proprietary content sourced from vectorized documents,
images
and other data formats.
The complete process of rag
can be understood at a high level as follows.
Now in this diagram,
a user initiates a query
or a prompt.
Now this query of prompt, it is converted into
embeddings
and a search and retrieval process
takes place from the vector store
or
online data sources.
Now,
the relevant information
is searched
and and
if if it is available, it is retrieved with the top rank search results.
And this search outcome
is incorporated into the prompts
to and that is sent to the large language models.
Now, natural language understanding in
LMS, it is utilized to generate a response.
The response which is so obtained from the
LM
is formatted
and then sent to the user
either through the chatbot
or through the teams
in the expected template.
Now that we have got a basic understanding of vector embedding knowledge graphs,
semantic search and retrieval augmented generation.
Let's put all of these together for a use case.
The scenario is for a retail client
namely Supermart
X,
accenture is providing application maintenance support.
Level two incident management is the primary scope of work
whenever an incident is raised in service. Now,
the level two support team performs root cause analysis
identifies resolutions,
results
and documents
the same in service. Now,
server performance issue is an issue
that leads to repeat incidents.
Now, the account team wants to automate the root cause analysis
and recommendation generation
leveraging genial
L
automation.
Similar incidents have occurred in the past
Jai
solution can leverage the past incident documentation
to synthesize
and analyze to identify root cause for a new incident.
The ticket term from service now includes incident details like description,
root cause resolution notes,
etc.
When there are multiple incidents, patterns are identified from the incidents,
root cause and resolution notes.
In
this case,
there is a pattern
that links mis configuration of server to performance issue.
So here is the scenario with the historical incident, a
user reports, a performance issue with an application.
The incident has been logged in service now
and the description of the ticket application takes more than five minutes to open
the root cause analysis is the it team has identified
that
the issue is primarily due to mis configuration in the application server
and they have also resolved the issue by adjusting the server settings.
So the resolution summary is that the performance
issue has been resolved by adjusting server settings.
So this is one such historical incident
like this, there are multiple such incidents. Now let's consider a scenario
that where in which there is a new incident,
there is a delay in launching the application for
which the right root cause needs to be identified
based on the past incident data.
Now, the objective is to prepare a high level functional architecture
of a generative A I solution
that leverages vector embedding
retrieval augmented generation
to identify root cause of the incident in
the service now and update the same there as well.
Now there are two parts to this uh solution.
The first one being the initial vector store setup,
embedding the incident dump from the service now.
And the second one being the new incident processing for
identifying the root cause.
Now let us understand the first part namely the initial vector store setup
which involves embedding incident dump from the service. Now,
the first
step is to extract the incident details from the service. Now,
this includes
the description,
the root cause resolution notes, etc.
Once the incident details are extracted,
the text is preprocess.
So text preprocessing includes cleaning up of the records by removing stop words,
normalizing different words
with similar or same meaning
and extraction of key attributes
like the issue root cause resolution
geography server name,
etc.
The next step is uh tokenizing the description.
So tokenizing implies breaking down the
incident description into individual tokens.
This can be
words or it can be characters. In
this example,
we are considering a tokenized representation of the incident description.
Application takes more than five minutes to open
and the token
format could look like
application
takes
more than
five minutes to open.
The next step is
encoding.
So the first thing that happens is extracting the features.
So feature extraction involves selecting relevant features from the tokens.
And so here in this example,
the features can be application takes more five minutes and to open
the next
uh once features are extracted,
it needs to be encoded and feature encoding,
it will convert the selected features into a suitable format.
For the embedding model.
Typically
one hot encoding is a common technique that is made use of.
And
once it is applied,
the
vector is represented
as
you can see over here
with the one at the position corresponding to its
index in the vocabulary and zero is elsewhere.
The next step is vector organization.
This involves transforming the one
hot encoded vectors
into dense vectors using an embedding model.
There are different types of embedding models used like word to
Vec Glow
DC which is a variant of GP T three.
And finally, these dense vectors are stored in a vector data store
and something like this
and these dense vectors can be indexed for efficient uh retrieval.
Now to create knowledge graphs out of
the vector embeddings that were created above.
The first step is to identify the entities,
the entities include the incidents, the root cause resolution,
the components
and
the users.
The next step is to determine the relationship between the
entities.
In this example,
some relationships include has root cause has resolution impacts,
leads to
etc.
Now,
the examples of entities and relationship include
say incident 001
has a root cause
of misfigure
incident 001 has a resolution of adjusting the server settings.
And incident 001 is related to the component, application server.
The component or application server impacts the mis configuration
and the mis configuration can be resolved by the it admin.
And this is represented by the knowledge graph that we can see
towards the right.
So these are the entities and these are the relationships.
Now let's understand the second part,
namely new incident processing for identifying root cause.
Now when a new incident
is raised with a description, there is a delay in launching the application.
It again goes through the
ization process that we discussed previously.
Namely
the text gets preprocess, it is cleansed,
then it is tokenized,
then the features are extracted and encoded
and the
resultant vector embeddings are then stored in the vector database
and
indexed. Now to determine the potential
root cause a semantic search is made use of these index
vectors are then queried to find if there are similar incidents
and
to determine the potential root cause. Now to quickly
the
similarity, a cosine similarity search is made use of
and cosine similarity is nothing but the product of
the two vectors by the magnitude of the vectors.
And it takes values between minus one and one.
And if the value is minus one, it implies that
the vectors are in opposite directions, they are not similar.
However, if it is one
or if it is close to one,
it indicates that the vectors are similar and in the same direction.
Now, if the cosine
similarity is close to one,
then
based on the similarity,
the relevant index in
incident information is retrieved from the
vector database and the knowledge graph.
And this information
including the vector embedding.
The relevant data from the knowledge graph is
integrated or augmented with the original prompt.
Now, when the this information
is incorporated,
then the system gets a better understanding of
the context and it will enable it to provide
informed potential root cause or recommendations
for that retrieved incident information.
Now what happens is the large land wage model
will synthesize the response based on the augmented prompt and
retrieved incident information.
Now using the language generation capabilities,
it generates what could be the potential recommendation for the root cause.
Then this response that is so
retrieved, it gets formatted
and then the root cause and the recommendations
are updated in the service now incident record.
So this is the entire process.